= Welcome to Postbook

To log in, find a user in the Rails console (Author.find(x)), proceed to authors/login and user the user's username and the password is 'password'

Currently, the user's 'control panel' menu is hidden when not logged in, should replace with a link to log in (and log in via twitter, etc.)



= Gems Installed (and implemented)


== Devise

https://github.com/plataformatec/devise

To configure Devise layouts (such as login form), see app/views/devise

Devise has been configured to use the username (not the email) as the key in config/initializers/devise.rb


== OmniAuth

https://github.com/intridea/omniauth

I'm only using OmniAuth through Twitter right now. This is also configured in the Devise configuration file, config/initializers/devise.rb

Devise and OmniAuth are both configured further through the routes file.

See app/controllers/omniauth_callbacks_controller.rb for further configuration


== CanCan

https://github.com/ryanb/cancan

Configured through the application controller by setting a current_ability method and sending to a static forbidden file for CanCan exceptions

Partially implemented in the authors and posts controllers

Ability.rb model in app/models/ability.rb is where all abilities for each user type are defined, 'load_and_authorize_resource' in each controller loads the data object, if authorized, automaticalls (e.g. sets @post and @posts in appropriate posts controller methods)

See app/views/posts/show.html.erb at bottom for example (example of possible edit link for post when post viewed is created by current user)


== Faker

https://github.com/stympy/faker

The Faker gem is used to create fake content for our populate command.

The database is populated right now, but to reset it, you can perform the following actions:

rake db:reset

Then to re-populate the databse, run the following command:

rake db:populate

This will create 99 authors with 3 posts each.


== Simple Navigation

https://github.com/andi/simple-navigation

Configured at config/navigation.rb

Used in navigation partial at app/views/application/_navigation.html.erb for mainNav only.  Only shows posts and authors because those are only models/controllers implemented so far. Will implement for subnavs such as related posts, etc. (e.g. below the post title on the 'show' post view).


== Bootstrap w/ Sass

https://github.com/thomas-mcdonald/bootstrap-sass

Included in CSS and Javascript but not used yet. Might be useful for pagination, etc. (but I believe the plan is for infinite scrolling)


== jQuery

https://github.com/indirect/jquery-rails


== RSpec

https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails


== Factory Girl

https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl_rails


== Will Paginate

https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/wiki


== Annotate

https://rubygems.org/gems/annotate



= Models, Controllers, and Views

== Posts

Right now, you can create a post, view a post, and edit a post. You can also view all posts.

Viewing all posts and a single post are partially implemented in the Postbook design.

== Authors

Right now, you can view an author and create an author (sign up). Neither are implemented in the postbook design and may be blocked by CanCan at the moment.




= General Development Notes

== Time Formats

I've started a file for custom time formats in config/initializers/time_formats.rb

An example of their use is at app/views/posts/show.html.erb



= Issues, Tasks, etc.

Move the following into Github Issues:

1. Should prevent highlight of search box caused by Bootstrap
2. Incorporate Sign Up links when not logged in and begin this workflow to expand CanCan authorization
3. Finish basic CRUD controller, models, and views for posts and authors


